by a qualifying Intel product and get
entered in the Intel dynamic ticket
giveaway for a chance to win great
prizes visit Intel gaming promo com to
learn more by popular demand actually
only one person asked for this unboxing
but I was going to do it anyway so there
you go my unboxing of the Razer Tartarus
game tag whatever you want to call these
things basically Razer has taken the
orb-weaver which is their mechanical
gaming device there you go
so it's kind of a keyboard replacement
so you still use your mouse in your
mouse hand and then you use this and
what would typically be your keyboard
hand but it is completely optimized for
gaming this is now a membrane version so
it is a lower-priced version of a very
similar sort of concept as the
orb-weaver so let's go ahead and open
this bad boy up and have a look at what
are the key differences so just like the
orb-weaver it is backlit they have made
some changes to the ergonomics and
unlike the Nostromo which was an
existing product okay they have made
some new economic tweaks as well so the
Tartarus is fully integrated with Razer
synapse 2.0 software which means all of
the 25 buttons on it are fully
programmable I do think their marketing
for this product is a touch deceptive on
me to put it sort of completely honestly
though because what Razer says is 25
fully programmable keys and 8-way thumb
pad the 8 way thumb pad is actually
included in the 25 programmable keys so
I'll show you where all of them are if
you want guys want to check this out so
there's 15 here just like that so here's
where your WASD fingers would typically
go you've got a nice convenient bump
right there in the center so you can
find your way back to it easily but
backlight is implemented in a very
different way compared to the orb-weaver
where the each key is individually
backlight so you can see there's quite a
bit of spill through from the back which
some people will find more attractive
and others will find less attractive
okay so there's your 15 keys then you've
got eight more here so this is an you
can probably actually hear those clicks
that's an
eight-way thumb sort of joystick button
you've got an additional button here and
an additional one here so that's 15 plus
10 is 25 you can actually switch between
eight different profiles on the fly and
each of these buttons is completely
customizable in remappable using synapse
2.0 you just have to set it up one time
then you can use it online or offline
whichever you prefer you can have an
unlimited number of game profiles and
you can have unlimited length macros
which i find to be a very very
attractive feature now unlike the orb
weaver the Tartarus doesn't feature
quite the same degree of customizability
so pretty much all you can do is take
the wrist rest and move it up and down
like this so there's a little key right
here that allows you to go ahead and
move that back and forth on the orb
weaver we saw a bit of a higher end
implementation of this functionality
where there's a metal skeleton on the
bottom of it and then you can actually
move here you go
the thumb piece out here you could move
the bottom piece out and backwards and
then you could let's see if I can get
that yeah there you go
so you can move this piece and you could
actually unlock this rest right here
which had a nice rubberized grip to it
much the same as the Death Adder 2013
edition this one uses more of a soft
touch feel overall and is quite a bit
lighter as well but one thing that I
liked that raised is improved over the
orb-weaver is it has a gorgeous braided
cord that just feels more durable and
this might seem like a trivial thing to
you but if you have cats braided cables
are a godsend I have had cables that
were on the brink of destruction and if
it wasn't for the braiding they wouldn't
have made it
now razors branding for this is infinite
possibilities and I see where they're
coming from because in addition to the
unlimited profiles and the 15 buttons
over here you can actually use the 8 way
pad over here as a modifier now I
personally would probably still end up
using WASD as opposed to this 8 Way pad
even though I understand why people
might want to use this for movement then
they have access to more spells or
macros or whatever else so you can kind
of use it however you want but this is
very appealing to me using this as a
modifier for what you're doing so if you
use this as WASD then you could actually
map eight different functions to the 10
key here for example by holding it this
way and pressing it this way and
pressing it this way etc etc and so on
this makes this not only
useful from a gaming standpoint but I've
also you heard of even creative
professionals using these kinds of
devices as a as a quick hotkey device
that actually sits next to their
keyboard and you can use in things like
Photoshop for example it works on
Windows or Mac so whichever you prefer
is just fine by Razer and in terms of
ergonomics I'd say if you have smaller
hands you're going to find the Tartarus
more comfortable by default than the
orb-weaver even at the orb-weaver
smallest setting so I'm going to go
ahead and adjust this one back down I
did find it to be a little bit on the
big side for me so you can see that
because it has a larger key matrix
actually I'll put the Tartarus in front
so it has a larger key matrix there just
wasn't much that I could reach with my
smaller hands and it expands very nicely
for people with large hands so go with
the Tartarus with its MX blue sargo with
the orb-weaver with its MX blue switches
if you have larger hands or if you
prefer mechanical switches which many
many gamers do or if you want something
that uses membrane caps so you can hear
much quieter very different tactile
experience or if you have smaller hands
or or whatever else the case may be
razors got a couple of different options
for you thank you for checking out my
unboxing an overview of the Tartarus
from Razer don't forget to subscribe
don't forget to like this video if you
liked it dislike it if you disliked it
and leave a comment letting me know what
do you think of these would you rather
just use your keyboard
I mean Corsair tried to implement
something with the Vengeance k60 where
they added like a little addition to the
keyboard that was like a little wrist
rest thing but I don't think anyone ever
actually ended up using it because I
think everyone who cared about that was
already using something like this so so
what do you prefer I actually don't
think I ever mentioned the large rubber
grippy pads on the bottom those are
excellent I don't know if they had yeah
very similar to the ones on the
orb-weaver actually